# Perdue-Farms-EDA-Project

## Background
Perdue Farms is a family-owned company heading into its second century of growth and innovation. Perdue Farms creates products for consumers, retail, and foodservice customers around the globe while changing the way animals are raised for food. From a logistics standpoint, Perdue Farms is faced with two major problems. First, a portion of their orders is late, which occurs when an order is dropped off more than 30 minutes past the time the clients expect the order. Perdue Farms wants to better understand various metrics regarding late orders, such as which states have the most late orders. Second, their drivers are held at the client's site for an excessive amount of time, often hours more than projected. They are intrigued by the idea of using drop trailers at client sites and are curious about how this would impact sales and the held time of the deliveries.

## Research Question and Data Overview
The aim of this project is to create visualizations that can effectively help solve the friction points mentioned above regarding the logistics of efficiently delivering orders to clients in a timely and cost-effective manner. Four different datasets were used in this analysis. One data source displays the transportation shipment history, providing information on the "who, when, and where" of the shipments. The second data source displays on-time performance and any delay time at delivery for the shipments. The third dataset shows the costs and relative financial information of the shipments. Finally, there is a dataset that displays both state names and abbreviations. All of these datasets are cleaned and merged appropriately. Ultimately, the final merged dataset consists of 4,144 customer orders across more than one dozen states from April, May, and June of 2021.

## Methodology
In order to efficiently clean and transform all of the datasets into one merged dataset ready for visualization, numerous packages from the tidyverse were used. The relationships between the various datasets were identified, and the necessary types of joins were performed after completing other data cleaning steps. Once the data preprocessing was complete, four data visualizations were created. First, a grouped bar chart was generated to display the overall held hours for each month in Q3 of 2021, comparing deliveries made fully in person versus using drop trailers. Another grouped bar chart was produced to show the overall held cost for each month in Q3 of 2021, comparing deliveries made fully in person and using drop trailers. These two visualizations demonstrated that drop trailers saved a substantial amount of time and money for Perdue Farms over the three-month period, suggesting that using drop trailers could be an efficient strategy to reduce drivers being held at the client site.
Next, a line graph was created to display the percentage of late deliveries in both the AM and PM. Additionally, a lollipop plot was used to illustrate the top states with the most late deliveries. These two visualizations provided Perdue Farms with a better understanding of the percentage of deliveries that were late and the impact of time on these delays. The lollipop chart clearly highlighted Pennsylvania, New York, and New Jersey as the states with the highest number of late deliveries.
